# Spotify Dataset Analysis Report
## Introduction
This report aims to analyse a dataset containing various songs on Spotify. The data represents both popular and unpopular songs on this streaming platform, taken from users’ listening data. These specific kinds of datasets are interesting as it allows us to determine what characteristics in music users tend to gravitate toward; and what they are more inclined to drift away from. The goal of our analysis is to find out what are the songs, albums or artists of the highest frequency, mentioned in the table.

## Dataset Overview
We obtained our dataset to use for our analysis from Kaggle. It features structured information about the music available on Spotify including both metadata from Spotify and audio features of the songs themselves. The dataset is designed to aid analysis of music trends and explore common audio features. The overall dataset includes 1686 rows and 30 columns of data. Each row represents a single track while each column represents a feature of the track that can be meaured in some way. These variables include a mix of categorical and numerical data including variables such as the track name or ID, the artists' names, the albums off which the tracks are from, their popularity rating, the tempo and duration, and many more different variables. Most of the core variables are generated by Spotify's own audio analysis algorithms and are useful for analysis and machine learning as they are already standardised and scaled in the majority of cases.  

## Data Cleaning Summary
When performing that data cleaning, I used two excel sheets these excel sheets are popular music charts and unpopular music charts. They contain attributes such liveness, danceability and track popularity, which will be the main ones I will be using for data cleaning, first I will use the Trim command to get rid for any data that is missing, there were no data missing on the popular sheet but there was one missing in the unpopular sheet, which was on line 256 which was empty for liveness. Then I got the average, min, max, SD, Mode and the median for these 3 attributes. Which helps gives you a rough idea for the datasheet, when talking about the mean, anything above 50 (mainly the track popularity) is on average the most liked and anything below that is on average less liked. The numbers represent what people enjoy most and what people enjoy less. For the liveness popular chart we see it have a rate 0.95 for the max, which suggest people enjoyed a certain song more then other compared to the lowest rated which was 0.021.


## Descriptive Statistics Explanation


## Visual Analysis


## Basic Machine Learning
As part of the Spotify playslist dataset analysis report, we used a machine learning prediction table to analyse how accurately gneres could be predicted for top Spotify tracks. We used Sourcetable to analyse. The table included the track artist, album, playlist genre, predicted genre, and whether the predicted gebre matched the playlist genre. In total 40 tracks were analysed . The predicted genre matched the playlist genre for 28 tracks, while it did not match for 12. This suggest that the match learning model has a reasonable level of accurancy, but its not always corect. Overall, this shows that machine learning can be useful for predicting music genres, it may require more data to increase accurancy . 

## Limitations and Ethics


## Conclusion
